---
title: "Installing Instagram after 4 years"
date: 2020-08-21
classes: wide
categories:
  - Social Media
  - Self-Improvement
header:
  teaser: "/assets/blogs/2020-08-21-Installing-Instagram-after-4-years/instagram-logo.png"
---

I decided to give Instagram a try mainly in an attempt to get girls. After spending some time taking a nice photo of myself and using it as my profile picture I decided to follow all the girls that follow my university. I then sat for 20 minutes and followed all these Instagram users with women as their profile picture that followed my university's Instagram account.

After doing this I had accumulated a lot of people following and my feed was filled with pictures of them. It then occurred to me how immensely pretentious and egotistical the majority of these women are. I realised that the vast majority of Instagram pictures are people seeking validation and approval from others. If there not doing that then they are showing off in some way or the other, whether that be showing their results at the gym, showing them in an expensive car or flexing the amount of money they own. 

I realised that there is a bias on the sorts of people on Instagram, and I quickly realised that I don't want any relations with these kinds of people because they are not very confident in themselves because they feel the need to look for validation and approval from others. I find it pitiful just the sheer number of people that fall for this mindset of they need approval and validation from others if it isn't this then its likely them showing off their goods looks, or a practice which is extremely common on Instagram is taking pictures in a way that reveals their bums and/or boobs. 

There was literally a post of Ariana Grande that she took of herself with clevage, and in the post she said that she was holding her boobs up with an arm that you couldn't see in the picture. Why had this kind of thing become so normalised? I find it disgusting because these people are presenting themselves as these sexual objects and not a human being with feelings and emotions. Then women get so upset when they think that they are being objectified by men. Then women get so upset when they have relationships with these men who are massive douches, and yet fail to realise that the reason they always get into relationships with douches is because their Instagram of them presenting themselves as sexual objects attracts a certain kind of man. 

But more on the topic on Instagram, Instagram have made a few changes since I was last on there a few years ago. One of them is stories, which I think is just a rip off of Snapchat which Whatsapp also ripped off. Instagram also made this feature where when you look at someones following/followers it you can scroll indefinitely because when you get to the end it starts from the beginning again, its clear the only reason they added that was because it would encourage people to remain on Instagram for longer. I also dislike how on Instagram the poster has the ability to remove comments on the post. I feel this just creates an echo chamber of people saying how amazing the poster looks, because the poster is likely going to remove anything that disagrees with them. I also dislike Instagram massively because it creates this completely fake image of people where the person only shows the way they want others to perceive them, and I think this thing alone is one of the reasons why social media is detrimental to mental health. I also like I said find people on Instagram very egotistical, as in they won't talk to you or interact with you because your follow count is so low or you haven't like all their photos and commented positive things about them. Its really sad people on Instagram think they are better than you because their follower account is larger than yours or that they have more likes on their Instagram pictures.

Also Instagram was bought by Facebook in April 2012	for a sum of $1 billion. Due to this I imagine that many privacy conscious people will decide not to use Instagram because Facebook doesn't have the best track record on caring about its users profile, it doesn't even care about the privacy of people that don't even use their website. Just watch this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PzHLwkcSc_s)

I just find Instagram to be very disingenuous, of course this doesn't apply to everyone on Instagram and I of course have a bias in that I haven't seen everyone on Instagram and have only seen so many people on there. I imagine that Instagram can be ok for some people, but you need to use it very carefully because I feel that the vast majority of people on their don't have the most positive of mindsets. I mean how positive is it really, to take a photo of yourself and post in on Instagram in the hopes that others will validate and approve of you? I don't see that as a positive thing to do. 

As well another thing I realised about Instagram is that ultimately its a complete waste of time. How much are you really benefiting yourself by sitting and looking at pictures of others seeking validation and approval? How much are you benefiting yourself by looking at others followers and following? How much are you benefiting yourself by giving people approval and validation by liking and commenting nice things about the poster? How much are you really benefiting yourself by posting pictures of yourself in the hope of getting approval and validation from others? Yes I agree that you will feel good about yourself if loads of people tell you how amazing you look, but does it really matter? So what if you look amazing or don't look amazing? Why should you care about the opinions of others? I believe that the only persons opinions you should be caring about is your own. As well how long does that good feeling last for, a day, two days, three days? I imagine that Instagram know that answers because they can likely data mine to see what the average time is between posts. Personally I imagine it to be no longer than 3 days. But of course it depends how long people are giving you approval and validation on that one post, and the person.

Its sad as well because it brainwashes people into believing that they are this person that they portray in their Instagram and makes them think that they won't be accepted and approved of if they decide to show who they really are. So they live a life in line with this image of themselves that they show on Instagram, which I think ultimately just leads to unhappiness, because when they can't keep up with this image they show then they feel that others won't accept them. It also brainwashes people into constantly uploading for that nice feeling that they get when they are approved of and validated by other people. Its like Instagram users are drug addicts and they need their fix of approval and validation from others (the drug) by posting pictures of themselves. This then gets taken to an extreme because more and more people mostly women feel the need to show off their boobs and bum in an attempt to get peoples attention so that they can get more validation and approval from others. Its actually just really sad. Its even more sad to think about how a lot of people (I imagine) don't realise any of this.

In conclusion I think that the technology behind Instagram isn't the problem, its the way in which its used, and I never really appreciated this argument until I watched the start of X-men Dark Pheonix where Professor X said upon giving a young Gene a pen "Now you could choose to draw a really good picture with that, or you could use it to poke someone's eyes out, but either way its still just a pen". The point I believe he was alluding to was that nothing is inherently evil, it is the use of it that makes it either good or bad. Now comparing this to Instagram its the general populations use of it that makes it what is. Of course this can be applied to other social media such as Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat etc. 

I'll end by saying this.

The only person you need approval and validation from is YOURSELF!
