---
title: "Faults"
date: 2021-08-03
classes: wide
categories:
  - Wellbeing
  - Spiritual
---

In this short post I will talk a little bit about faults or flaws. Quite simply a fault or flaw is something that isn’t perfect or is hindering you in some way. An example of a fault could be self-sabotage, which in my opinion a lot of people have this flaw in some way.

Working on your flaws is in my opinion a fundamental aspect of following the spiritual life. We all have flaws every one of us, we may have flaws which affect us to a great extend such as in my case one of my flaws was when things don’t go my way I would make myself feel unhappy as a means of detesting the fact that things hadn’t gone my way or I would think that things are a total disaster and think that they will always be a disaster and really lingering on these thoughts. 

Everybody has different flaws; no two people will have the same flaws. We have personality flaws, social flaws, flaws with our thought processes, flaws with our beliefs. In every aspect of life there are flaws. But what is important is to identify flaws as best as you can, because as the Lao Tzu says in Tao Te Ching “When you identify a fault as a fault, can you no longer be with that fault” All this is quote is saying is that you first need to be able to identify a fault before you can seek to remove it.

The means to remove a fault is fairly simple. To remove a fault you should send out a prayer by visualzing said thought and thanking God in removing said fault and then throughout your day anytime you notice that fault occurring you do your best to reject the fault, hence you need to engage in right mindfulness to be able to identify when you engage in this fault, as without mindfulness you wouldn’t be able to see when you are engaging in this fault. Over time this fault will lessen its impact on you as you constantly keep rejecting it and will gradually fade away from your makeup. 

One thing that I noticed is that when you remove one fault, that fault was caused by another fault, and then that fault was also caused by another fault you had and so you just have this chain of faults until you get and master the very basics. For me I was removing a lot of faults in my makeup until I got to the root causes which was having and cultivating right thought and thus rejecting negative, dark thoughts because once you master your thoughts nobody can help you as much. Another fault I had was my attitude towards things was that it would end in a disaster which wasn’t a good attitude to have so I’m slowly but surely learning to reject this attitude and cultivate a more positive attitude towards things. You also engage in right effort when seeking to remove a fault as it takes a fair amount of effort to be able to constantly reject a fault. 

