---
title: "Veganism"
date: 2022-03-15
classes: wide
categories:
  - Spiritual 
tag:
  - Vegan
---

First, I encourage all those on the spiritual path to become vegetarian/vegan and see it as an act of obedience towards God. The reason why you should consider diet as important is because what you put inside your body has an effect on your wellbeing. When you eat only junk food and takeaways then it causes upset in your stomach and you become unhealthy.

I will also just say that I have been vegetarian since mid 2018 and have been a vegan since 2020 March so I have good experience with being both and generally I would recommend being a vegetarian before going into veganism. 

But vegetarianism and veganism is showing respect for life because you show respect for the animals that are being slaughtered before their time to die and against their own wishes. It also goes against thou shall not kill which is one of the ten commandments because you kill the animals by eating them and you are the reason that they died before their time.

Yes I agree that plants are also living, but plants have less sentience than an animal, so in a sense it’s the lesser of two evils that you eat plants than eat animals.

Also the DNA of an animal is very similar to that of humans and so it can be considered a form of cannibalism to eat animals because they are so similar to us.

It also goes against thou shall not steal because animals should be free to live their lives as they chose in peace and harmony, instead we have a situation in the world where animals are bred in captivity, with no amount of love or affection and then they are slaughtered for the general public to enjoy as a meal.

However, you shouldn't if you yourself vegetarian/vegan look down upon those who eat meat, but accept that they still believe in their hearts that it’s the right thing to do and so accept these people as you should all life and not condemn them or judge them but show respect for them.

Also, the digestive tract of carnivores is short and so the food can be digested quickly, whilst the digestive tract for humans is long and so humans were never meant to be carnivorous, and meat contains toxins which actually harm the body.

In conclusion, humanity will do well to become vegetarian/vegan because it will reduce the suffering that these poor vulnerable, defenceless creatures of God have had to put up with for so long. But you should only become vegetarian/vegan if you yourself believe in your heart that it is the right thing to do.





