---
title: "Prayer"
date: 2022-02-22
classes: wide
categories:
  - Spiritual 
tag:
  - Jesus
  - God
  - Christianity
---


Praying is one of the things that I think a lot of people can benefit from. The secret with prayer is to have the genuine intention of helping the person/thing you are praying and doing it for them and not for yourself. To progress towards God, it’s important to serve your fellow man, meditate and pray. 

When praying for others, you draw towards you Gods’ helpers/guides/angels etc. who will help you with your needs and help you to progress towards God. So, helping others through service and prayer is almost definitely in everyone’s best interest.

The technique that I use to pray nowadays is to sit and visualize the person/thing that is causing harm to the world and send out a prayer that this person/thing is helped by God but doing so in a manner without any ill intent towards the person/thing you are praying for but doing so in the genuine intention that this person is helped by God for his benefit and not your own.

Another technique which has helped me along my journey, and I think which will help others is to use Jesus’s prayer which is a really good prayer called the “Lords prayer” which you can find a copy of it somewhere on the internet, but it goes like this:

“Our Father who art in heaven,

Hallowed by thy name,

Thy Kingdom come,

Thy will be done,

On earth as it is in heaven,

Give us this day our daily bread,

And forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us,

Lead us not into temptation,

But deliver us from evil,

For the Power and the Glory to your kingdom is yours, now and forever and ever,

Amen”

Generally, I say this prayer a few times (but leave the amen until the end) and say it with conviction and trueness in your heart. Over time you will be able to take up regular prayer and draw towards you Gods angels/guides who will work alongside you to help for your benefit and the benefit of the world.

Feel free to also give my article a read which is similar to this one [Pray for your Enemies](https://lovehumanity.gitlab.io/spiritual/Pray-For-Your-Enemies/)

Update 1: 02/03/22

I also made my own prayer if anyone is interested in my prayer feel fre to use it as a template.

Said with conviction and sincerity and a belief in the power of God and with an understanding and trueness in the meanings of the words. Be sincere and actually act like you art thanking God directly when saying this prayer for the 'magic' to work. Generally I repeat this prayer for half an hour and it will and has done wonders for me.

"Our Father who art in heaven,

Hallowed be your name,

I Thank you 

For all the blessings that you send to us on earth,

For helping those in need,

Keeping us away from evil and corruption, 

For helping those who are seduced by evil and corruption,

Leading us not into temptation,

But leading us to become more Christ like,

Bringing peace, love, compassion, forgiveness understanding, gratitude, harmony and order to the world,

Giving us the strength, dignity, fortitude, bravery and courage to fulfill your will for each of us,

Helping us to serve you and only you,

Helping those will ill will in their hearts to change for the benefit of life,

Helping those who don't yet believe in your power,

Helping those whom suffer without good cause,

And giving us freedom and leading us to you,

Amen"



